hey everyone it's neil patel and welcome
to another day of growth hacking
unlocked if you miss any of the previous
lessons you can check them out at
neilpatel.com training and click on
growth hacking unlocked
this is the second lesson where we talk
about raising capital where we focus
more on the later stage
if you think about the sources of wealth
if you look at some of the most richest
people in the world jeff bezos
bernard arnault and family i don't know
how to say his last name i do apologize
for that if you're listening bernard
although i know he probably is not
listening uh elon musk of course and
then you have bill gates
when you think about funding there's a
lot of stages as i mentioned last in the
last lesson in this lesson we're talking
about the later stages series d e f h
late sage m a
ipo leverage buyouts secondary offering
when you think about a lot of the large
companies out there there's a lot of
successful people who ended up making
money through their startups uh many
cases they raised money and then they
ended up selling or they used leverage
or took ipo like you look at the gopro
guy right he went public he's been on
shark tank a few times mark cuban
broadcast.com was acquired by yahoo for
5.7 billion in stock kevin o'leary uh mr
wonderful he
uh in 1999 tlc was acquired by mattel
for 4.2 billion dollars when you think
about series a b and c rounds they're
typically smaller uh these days i'm
seeing a rounds a lot of times around 10
15 even 20 plus million dollars in
series a funding investors are not just
looking for great ideas they're looking
for traction so you need to make sure
that you have a money making business
and the average estimated capital rates
for a series b round is 32 million and
series c rounds typically are focused on
scaling as well as series b now with
series d e and f
you know people are like all right you
got a real business you're headed
towards ipo you want to expand before
going public or selling and there's not
a lot of companies that make it to
series d e and f so when those companies
do make it out there there's a lot of
pent up demand for them and the
valuation and pricing just goes to the
roof just look at uipath when uipath
first started raising money you know
much lower rounds and then later on the
valuation started going high and at one
point before they went public people
like wait their last private round may
be higher than the valuation of when
they're going public now eventually it
all sorted out and their investors did
fine but that just shows you how much
pent-up demand there is you all know the
wework example as well in which we work
had higher valuations in the private
market than they did in the public
markets and people learned a lot from
that but generally speaking what they
ended up seeing with the whole wework
fiasco is with a lot of these companies
they
you know the private investors like all
right we need to make sure unit
economics are right and these companies
have long-term potential now with m a
that's the stands for mergers and
acquisitions
you know a lot of people go out there
and they just buy companies you can
merge with others or you can buy like
facebook bought instagram they bought
whatsapp google bought youtube
and microsoft has bought a ton of
companies including skype and github
and that is what happens in the m a
realm heck they even bought linkedin and
as you grow your company what you'll
find is you know you'll generate revenue
over time and m a is just a negotiation
the better technology you have more
something unique that you have the
better pricing you're going to get the
bigger you are better pricing as well
but if you want to set a lot of these
things right from fundraising to
acquisitions to even potentially merging
you gotta really fine-tune your
marketing and do growth right which
we'll cover in the next three lessons
and it's everything from search engine
optimization to doing affiliate
marketing to social media to ads whether
it's on facebook youtube or google you
know participating on linkedin even
leveraging things like clubhouse doing
email marketing push notifications
messenger bots in essence marketing has
turned to omnichannel approach where you
can't just use one channel to do well
you kind of got to use them all and
that's why if you go to neilpatel.com
training you'll see that i have courses
and content on everything because
marketing has turned into an omni
channel approach google purchased
wildfire in july 2012
for
450 million roughly which was at least
what was reported online and regardless
of the economic conditions these
companies like google and facebook they
all have a lot of cash and they're
willing to spend it in any sort of
economy
and you can grow a lot through m a just
think about minecraft or microsoft and
linkedin and the potential synergies are
endless out there
and the whole thing i have for you is
when you're doing this just make sure
it's strategic if you're the one buying
and i have a whole guide for you which
you can find at neilpatel.com training
click on growth hacking unlocked then go
to
week one it's the second lesson in there
and download the guide and it'll help
you
going back to funding stages as i
mentioned there's private equity there's
venture capitals public markets
typically what you'll find is the
venture capitalists will give you higher
valuations for private equity because
private equity is typically cashing out
founders
then when you think about merging
acquisitions you can end up getting paid
a little bit more than what you can in
the private markets selling to a private
equity company and then with public
markets if you go ipo typically that's
where the highest valuations are
in many cases what you'll find is when
companies buy you and they're publicly
traded let's say you get bought out by
like a sales force if they're valued at
60 times profit i'm making it up or 90
times profit and they're buying you for
10 times profit or 20 times they're
making money on the buy because the
markets are evaluating more than what
they gave you cash for
and that's why a lot of people go public
because when they go public you know you
can raise money and then you can use
that money to buy companies for less
when the public markets value at you for
way more so you got to think about your
exit strategy and what you think is
right for you but you don't need to
worry about that too much right now
because if you're losing this course you
want to grow faster and typically you're
going to be in the earlier stages and
you may want to think about funding and
what capital can have to your company
what effect it can create can it help
you grow a lot faster can you end up
just scaling up much quicker so think
about that when you're thinking about
the whole funding thing now if you have
any questions you can leave a comment
below if you like the video make sure
you
like it share it tell other people about
it
and if you just want my ad agency to
help you with your growth marketing you
can check out np digital and next week
we're going to go into specific tactics
thank you for your time